Type: original
Title: Harry Marks Interviews Matt Alexander
Link: Harry Marks Interviews Matt Alexander.htm
Pubdate: 2013/11/07 12:36:58
Author: Zac Szewczyk

When I started writing [*Need, Fashion, and Matt Alexander*](Harry Marks Interviews Matt Alexander on Need.txt) I began with the title "Harry Marks Interviews Matt Alexander on Need". Those curious can look to the post's URL for confirmation, which still reads as described despite the fact that I changed its title. I set out with such a headline intending to make a short congratulatory post linking to Harry Marks' article [*Interview with Matt Alexander of Need*](http://www.curiousrat.com/interview-with-needs-matt-alexander)*;* however, ambition got the better of me and I ended up writing something I feel quite proud of as one of my better think pieces in a while. Those original motifs I pushed to the wayside still clamored for attention though, attention that I will grant them in this follow-up piece.  

At the onset I began the article that evolved into *Need, Fashion, and Matt Alexander* as not just a link post, but--more importantly, in my mind--a commentary regarding Harry Marks' interesting presentation of his interview I found very reminiscent of the best traits print publications had to offer. Namely, in stark contrast to the all-too common laundry list of questions posed and then answered in rapid and brief succession characteristic of interviews posted online, Harry peppered just five throughout his nearly 1700-word article. This great question-to-elaboration ratio did two wonderful things: first, it forced Harry to put a lot of forethought into his queries; with just five available, he was forced to--and did so splendidly--pose only the most pertinent and interesting questions. Equally important, this also allowed Matt Alexander to expound upon his answers in enough detail that I seldom wished for more information. Combined these two aspects lent themselves to a much more fulfilling interview than I see most internet publications squeeze out these days.  

As much as I may wish it were so, I did not finish *Interview with Matt Alexander of Need* and sit back to reflect upon Harry's lack of incessant interrogation and an absence of disappointingly brief quips on Matt's part. Rather, I scrolled back through the article looking at Harry's unique presentation of that content. Complete with well-placed and relevant section headers that served the dual purpose of presenting Harry's questions and defining the following paragraphs' topic interspersed with strategically placed germane and interesting excerpts, I thoroughly enjoyed Harry's take on the tried and true interview model.