Type: original
Title: Please, Sir, May I Have Some More?
Link: May I Have Some More.htm
Pubdate: 2014/01/07 21:51:18
Author: Zac Szewczyk

In my early days as a fledgling internet writer, back when I posted at blog-that-shall-not-be-named-dot-provider-dot-com, I worked hard to increase my readership. Taking lessons from anyone willing to give them, I delved into WordPress.com's fantastic blogging community and networked with other like-minded individuals. We read each others' articles, commented, and even planned to start a number of joint ventures together. Although in its infancy, even back in 2007 I also looked to drive traffic towards my work with podcast advertisements. As the years wore on I unfortunately moved away from these venues and on to Hacker News and Twitter, where I have remained to date with little to show for my efforts.

Out of curiosity, in preparation for this post I decided to go back and check the stats for three "major" blogs I ran prior to this one. While others came even earlier and still more in between, three stood out as endeavors I put a significant amount of energy in to. I started the first on December 13th, 2007, published twenty-four articles over the next four months, and closed its doors on April 3rd, 2008. I did not, however, take it off the internet: it remains publicly available to this day. Since its founding, my first blog has attracted 919 views. Interestingly, 595 of those came after I stopped posting there. In other words, these articles--despite my general embarrassment at having ever published them--have incredible longevity.

On April 4th, 2008, I launched its successor. Wanting to keep my previous work intact, I imported my favorite articles from my past site and used them as a jumping-off point to give me something to work from. Two years and eight months later, after 144 posts, I shuttered this site as well on February 4th. Like the last, I did not completely close it down; today, its hit counter measures 24,871 views, 3,961 of which came after I stopped posting there.

Finally, I began my last blog prior to this one on February 22nd, 2011, and closed it six months later on September 19th after just 43 articles. Despite such a limited run when compared to its predecessor, this site garnered 8,095 views during the brief time period I posted new articles, and another 11,911 since I stopped publishing there, for a grand total of 20,006 views. For January of this year, its traffic--featuring content more than two years past its prime--is on par with my current blog where I write and post every single day. Incredible. "Astounded" does not even begin to describe my reaction to discovering all of this. Never in my wildest dreams did I expect such a turn of events, yet I could not argue with the graphs.

I had already settled on my consummate point when I set out to write this article; I just needed to decide how to get there. In service of this goal, I thought I would point to past failures as evidence of a flawed mantra preaching that hard work alone could guarantee eventual success. After all, I had tried this three times before and had yet to "succeed"; surely that meant the problem lie within the system rather than my own efforts. Ultimately, I planned to end on some permutation of this note:

> "In the beginning you might have been a small fish just starting out, but the pond was incredibly small; now the pond is not only incredibly large, but there are also exponentially more small fish. You cannot move forward the same way with [2.5 billion](http://www.asymco.com/2014/01/03/on-the-future-of-the-internet-and-everything/) internet users as you would with thousands or even hundreds of thousands."

When a routine checkup turned to surprise as I found five digits where I expected three though, I had to stop and think: perhaps the solution to my problem of a relatively minor readership did not lie in pestering those already in possession of large followings--the inspiration for my title--and instead I ought to buckle down and work at this as I had nothing before. It had proved worthwhile in the past, after all; why not again?
