Type: original
Title: Shifting Gears
Link: Shifting Gears.htm
Pubdate: 2013/05/23 21:13:07
Category: Writing
Author: Zac Szewczyk

When I wrote [*Writer's Guilt*](Writer's Guilt.txt) a few hours ago, I was done. I was drained. I was finished, and I was mad. Nevertheless, for an article written in anger, it turned out to be pretty good. As I walked downstairs after publishing it, I couldn't help but feel just a little proud. Then I had a banana, an orange, sat down on the couch, and watched The Fast and The Furious: Tokyo Drift for the first time in much too long. I had forgotten how great a movie it is--I had forgotten how great the entire series is, really. But after Tokyo Drift ended, as the last scene faded from the screen and the credits began to roll, I remembered. I remembered how much I love the series; I remembered how much I love movies.

Maybe it's Moises rubbing off on me, but as I was sitting on the couch with a cool, post-storm breeze coming in through the window behind me, listening to [episode forty-two of CMD+SPACE](http://5by5.tv/cmdspace/42), I found the something I had been searching for while writing *Writer's Guilt*.

At its inception, *Writer's Guilt* began as an explanation of how I had yet to find my voice in writing. I wanted to put to words my realization that the tech topics I had covered up to this point--while interesting to me, yes--did not inspire me, and that inspiration was what I needed to do the one thing that constantly frustrates me: write regularly. Alas, the article instead turned in to a "forget you, I'll do what I want" sort of piece. I was missing my voice, after all, and I couldn't write without it.

With a cool breeze blowing in behind me, I found my voice in the credits of Tokyo Drift. Technology has always fascinated me; it will forever remain a passion of mine and something that I will undoubtedly continue to write about. Even more than technology though, I love movies and TV shows. That's a topic I can write about, and maybe--just maybe--a topic I can write about every day.
