Type: original
Title: Unfair Platform Advantage
Link: Unfair Platform Advantage.htm
Pubdate: 2013/08/11 19:19:43
Category: Tech
Author: Zac Szewczyk

I devoted [my last post](The September iPhone Launch.txt) to discussing Ina Fried's prediction of a September 10th iPhone launch date, forgoing my thoughts on the article itself and its rise to popularity over the last twenty-four hours. From my opening paragraph:

> "Earlier this morning, as I scrolled through my RSS reader, I came across a number of articles mentioning an unassuming and altogether unremarkable [AllThingsD piece by Ina Fried](http://allthingsd.com/20130810/circle-sept-10-on-your-calendar-for-apples-big-iphone-event/). Despite its lukewarm tone, the prediction of a September iPhone launch event ran the gamut of popular tech sites and garnered a great deal of attention even though it said nothing surprising or even particularly interesting at this point."

Now, I intend to expand upon that overarching sentiment of disappointment.

As near as I can tell, it appears the hullabaloo that rose up around Ina's article stemmed from her information purportedly coming from a source within the company, or so her article seemed to imply. That, and the fact that the notable(?) site AllThingsD published the rumor.

And I consider that fundamentally wrong. As I said in *The September iPhone Launch*'s opening paragraph cited above, Ina neither made any surprising nor interesting observations--let alone predictions--as to the future with the minor exception of a concrete launch date. But as I demonstrated later on in my article, even deducing that date proved of little difficulty; no harder than tacking on "...sources told AllThingsD" anyways. But yet GigaOM, TechCrunch, Macstories, and other well-known internet publications picked it up, branded it with their stamp of approval, and passed it along. It's disappointing, really: both the article itself and the fact that so many deemed it worthy to pass along in such high regard.
