Type: linkpost
Title: Women, Tech Conferences, and the Bullshit Surrounding Them
Link: http://www.sugarrae.com/rants-in-bitchland/women-tech-conferences-and-bs/
Pubdate: 2013/05/01 10:40:56
Author: Zac Szewczyk

In the past I have written one article about women and equality, [*A Crying Shame*](A Crying Shame.txt). I am quite proud of that article. So much so, in fact, that unlike many of the other topics I rehash here, I have felt no need to write anything more on the subject. I did feel pushed to at least mention the article linked at the head of this post, however, especially after listening to what I seem to recall was episode #114 of Back to Work a few weeks ago. In [I'm Moving to FudgePacker](http://5by5.tv/b2w/114), Merlin Mann talked about misconstrued statistics and how improper representations of inaccurate statistics can lead to incorrect conclusions on important issues when in actuality, maybe--just maybe--it isn't quite as bad as everyone likes to stand up and claim it to be.

Merlin's example chronicled a previous discussion with a woman advocating equality in the tech sector. She argued citing a statistic claiming that women receive, on average, a significantly smaller salary than their male counterparts. In response, Merlin asked whether she or any of her female co-workers experienced this disproportionality; she responded that none had. He also pointed out that in citing an average, by definition an equal number of people receiving a salary greater than the average must also receive a salary smaller than the average, and that the difference in those amounts must be the same. In other words, if on average women are paid 75` of the wages given to their male co-workers, for example, and within this sample group of women they are all paid 100` of the wages given to their male counterparts, it follows that in order for the statistic to be accurate, some women, somewhere, must be receiving 25` less than the average, or 50` of the wages allocated to their male counterparts. And really--and this was his ultimate point--is this actually happening anywhere?

But back to Rae Hoffman's article, the piece that got me started down this rabbit trail:

> "Of course, some people look at the lineup and immediately assume highly talented women are being 'excluded'. Of course, they don't know that for a fact. For all they know, 95` of speaker pitches came from men and thus why they ended up with a 95` male speaker line up once they whittled down the list to the best pitches."
